Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban

by J.K. Rowling

CHAPTER ONE

OWL POST

Harry Potter was a highly unusual boy in many ways. For one thing, he
hated the summer holidays more than any other time of year. For another,
he really wanted to do his homework but was forced to do it in secret,
in the dead of night. And he also happened to be a wizard.

It was nearly midnight, and he was lying on his stomach in bed, the
blankets drawn right over his head like a tent, a flashlight in one hand
and a large leather-bound book (A History of Magic by Bathilda Bagshot)
propped open against the pillow. Harry moved the tip of his
eagle-feather quill down the page, frowning as he looked for something
that would help him write his essay, "Witch Burning in the Fourteenth
Century Was Completely Pointless discuss."

The quill paused at the top of a likely-looking paragraph. Harry Pushed
his round glasses up the bridge of his nose, moved his flashlight closer
to the book, and read:

Non-magic people (more commonly known as Muggles) were particularly
afraid of magic in medieval times, but not very good at recognizing it.
On the rare occasion that they did catch a real witch or wizard, burning
had no effect whatsoever. The witch or wizard would perform a basic
Flame Freezing Charm and then pretend to shriek with pain while enjoying
a gentle, tickling sensation. Indeed, Wendelin the Weird enjoyed being
burned so much that she allowed herself to be caught no less than
fortyseven times in various disguises.

Harry put his quill between his teeth and reached underneath his pillow
for his ink bottle and a roll of parchment. Slowly and very carefully he
unscrewed the ink bottle, dipped his quill into it, and began to write,
pausing every now and then to listen, because if any of the Dursleys
heard the scratching of his quill on their way to the bathroom, he'd
probably find himself locked in the cupboard under the stairs for the
rest of the summer.

The Dursley family of number four, Privet Drive, was the reason that
Harry never enjoyed his summer holidays. Uncle Vernon, Aunt Petunia, and
their son, Dudley, were Harry's only living relatives. They were
Muggles, and they had a very medieval attitude toward magic. Harry's
dead parents, who had been a witch and wizard themselves, were never
mentioned under the Dursleys' roof For years, Aunt Petunia and Uncle
Vernon had hoped that if they kept Harry as downtrodden as possible,
they would be able to squash the magic out of him. To their fury, they
had been unsuccessful. These days they lived in terror of anyone finding
out that Harry had spent most of the last two years at Hogwarts School
of Witchcraft and Wizardry. The most they could do, however, was to lock
away Harry's spellbooks, wand, cauldron, and broomstick at the start of
the summer break, and forbid him to talk to the neighbors.

This separation from his spellbooks had been a real problem for Harry,
because his teachers at Hogwarts had given him a lot of holiday work.
One of the essays, a particularly nasty one about shrinking potions, was
for Harry's least favorite teacher, Professor Snape, who would be
delighted to have an excuse to give Harry detention for a month. Harry
had therefore seized his chance in the first week of the holidays. While
Uncle Vernon, Aunt Petunia, and Dudley had gone out into the front
garden to admire Uncle Vernon's new company car (in very loud voices, so
that the rest of the street would notice it too), Harry had crept
downstairs, picked the lock on the cupboard under the stairs, grabbed
some of his books, and hidden them in his bedroom. As long as he didn't
leave spots of ink on the sheets, the Dursleys need never know that he
was studying magic by night.

Harry was particularly keen to avoid trouble with his aunt and uncle at
the moment, as they were already in an especially bad mood with him, all
because he'd received a telephone call from a fellow wizard one week
into the school vacation.

Ron Weasley, who was one of Harry's best friends at Hogwarts, came from
a whole family of wizards. This meant that he knew a lot of things Harry
didn't, but had never used a telephone before. Most unluckily, it had
been Uncle Vernon who had answered the call.

"Vernon Dursley speaking."

Harry, who happened to be in the room at the time, froze as he heard
Ron's voice answer.

"HELLO? HELLO? CAN YOU HEAR ME? I -- WANT -- TO -- TALK -- TO -- HARRY
-- POTTER!"

Ron was yelling so loudly that Uncle Vernon jumped and held the receiver
a foot away from his ear, staring at it with an expression of mingled
fury and alarm.

"WHO IS THIS?" he roared in the direction of the mouthpiece. "WHO ARE
YOU?"

"RON -- WEASLEY!" Ron bellowed back, as though he and Uncle Vernon were
speaking from opposite ends of a football field. "I'M -- A -- FRIEND --
OF -- HARRY'S -- FROM -- SCHOOL --"

Uncle Vernon's small eyes swiveled around to Harry, who was rooted to
the spot.

"THERE IS NO HARRY POTTER HERE!" he roared, now holding the receiver at
arm's length, as though frightened it might explode. "I DON'T KNOW WHAT
SCHOOL YOURE TALKING ABOUT! NEVER CONTACT ME AGAIN! DON'T YOU COME NEAR
MY FAMILY!"

And he threw the receiver back onto the telephone as if dropping a
poisonous spider.

The fight that had followed had been one of the worst ever.

"HOW DARE YOU GIVE THIS NUMBER TO PEOPLE LIKE -- PEOPLE LIKE YOU!" Uncle
Vernon had roared, spraying Harry with spit.

Ron obviously realized that he'd gotten Harry into trouble, because he
hadn't called again. Harry's other best friend from Hogwarts, Hermione
Granger, hadn't been in touch either. Harry suspected that Ron had
warned Hermione not to call, which was a pity, because Hermione, the
cleverest witch in Harry's year, had Muggle parents, knew perfectly well
how to use a telephone, and would probably have had enough sense not to
say that she went to Hogwarts.

So Harry had had no word from any of his wizarding friends for five long
weeks, and this summer was turning out to be almost as bad as the last
one. There was just one very small improvement -- after swearing that he
wouldn't use her to send letters to any of his friends, Harry had been
allowed to let his owl, Hedwig, out at night. Uncle Vernon had given in
because of the racket Hedwig made if she was locked in her cage all the
time.

Harry finished writing about Wendelin the Weird and paused to listen
again. The silence in the dark house was broken only by the distant,
grunting snores of his enormous cousin, Dudley. It must be very late,
Harry thought. His eyes were itching with tiredness. Perhaps he'd finish
this essay tomorrow night....

He replaced the top of the ink bottle; pulled an old pillowcase from
under his bed; put the flashlight, A History of Magic, his essay, quill,
and ink inside it; got out of bed; and hid the lot under a loose
floorboard under his bed. Then he stood up, stretched, and checked the
time on the luminous alarm clock on his bedside table.

It was one o'clock in the morning. Harry's stomach gave a funny jolt. He
had been thirteen years old, without realizing it, for a whole hour.

Yet another unusual thing about Harry was how little he looked forward
to his birthdays. He had never received a birthday card in his life. The
Dursleys had completely ignored his last two birthdays, and he had no
reason to suppose they would remember this one.

Harry walked across the dark room, past Hedwig's large, empty cage, to
the open window. He leaned on the sill, the cool night air pleasant on
his face after a long time under the blankets. Hedwig had been absent
for two nights now. Harry wasn't worried about her: she'd been gone this
long before. But he hoped she'd be back soon -- she was the only living
creature in this house who didn't flinch at the sight of him.

Harry, though still rather small and skinny for his age, had grown a few
inches over the last year. His jet-black hair, however, was just as it
always had been -- stubbornly untidy, whatever he did to it. The eyes
behind his glasses were bright green, and on his forehead, clearly
visible through his hair, was a thin scar, shaped like a bolt of
lightning.

Of all the unusual things about Harry, this scar was the most
extraordinary of all. It was not, as the Dursleys had pretended for ten
years, a souvenir of the car crash that had killed Harry's parents,
because Lily and James Potter had not died in a car crash. They had been
murdered, murdered by the most feared Dark wizard for a hundred years,
Lord Voldemort. Harry had escaped from the same attack with nothing more
than a scar on his forehead, where Voldemort's curse, instead of killing
him, had rebounded upon its originator. Barely alive, Voldemort had
fled....

But Harry had come face-to-face with him at Hogwarts. Remembering their
last meeting as he stood at the dark window, Harry had to admit he was
lucky even to have reached his thirteenth birthday.

He scanned the starry sky for a sign of Hedwig, perhaps soaring

back to him with a dead mouse dangling from her beak, expecting praise.
Gazing absently over the rooftops, it was a few seconds before Harry
realized what he was seeing.

Silhouetted against the golden moon, and growing larger every moment,
was a large, strangely lopsided creature, and it was flapping in Harry's
direction. He stood quite still, watching it sink lower and lower. For a
split second he hesitated, his hand on the window latch, wondering
whether to slam it shut. But then the bizarre creature soared over one
of the street lamps of Privet Drive, and Harry, realizing what it was,
leapt aside.

Through the window soared three owls, two of them holding up the third,
which appeared to be unconscious. They landed with a soft flump on
Harry's bed, and the middle owl, which was large and gray, keeled right
over and lay motionless. There was a large package tied to its legs.

Harry recognized the unconscious owl at once -- his name was Errol, and
he belonged to the Weasley family. Harry dashed to the bed, untied the
cords around Errol's legs, took off the parcel, and then carried Errol
to Hedwig's cage. Errol opened one bleary eye, gave a feeble hoot of
thanks, and began to gulp some water.

Harry turned back to the remaining owls. One of them, the large snowy
female, was his own Hedwig. She, too, was carrying a parcel and looked
extremely pleased with herself. She gave Harry an affectionate nip with
her beak as he removed her burden, then flew across the room to join
Errol.

Harry didn't recognize the third owl, a handsome tawny one, but he knew
at once where it had come from, because in addition to a third package,
it was carrying a letter bearing the Hogwarts crest. When Harry relieved
this owl of its burden, it ruffled its feathers importantly, stretched
its wings, and took off through the window into the night.

Harry sat down on his bed and grabbed Errol's package, ripped off the
brown paper, and discovered a present wrapped in gold, and his first
ever birthday card. Fingers trembling slightly, he opened the envelope.
Two pieces of paper fell out -- a letter and a newspaper clipping.

The clipping had clearly come out of the wizarding newspaper, the Daily
Prophet, because the people in the black-and-white picture were moving.
Harry picked up the clipping, smoothed it out, and read:

MINISTRY OF MAGIC EMPLOYEE SCOOPS GRAND PRIZE

Arthur Weasley, Head of the Misuse of Muggle Artifacts Office at the
Ministry of Magic, has won the annual Daily Prophet Grand Prize Galleon
Draw.

A delighted Mr. Weasley told the Daily Prophet, "We will be spending the
gold on a summer holiday in Egypt, where our eldest son, Bill, works as
a curse breaker for Gringotts Wizarding Bank."

The Weasley family will be spending a month in Egypt, returning for the
start of the new school year at Hogwarts, which five of the Weasley
children currently attend.

Harry scanned the moving photograph, and a grin spread across his face
as he saw all nine of the Weasleys waving furiously at him, standing in
front of a large pyramid. Plump little Mrs. Weasley; tail, balding Mr.
Weasley; six sons; and one daughter, all (though the black-and-white
picture didn't show it) with flaming-red hair. Right in the middle of
the picture was Ron, tall and gangling, with his pet rat, Scabbers, on
his shoulder and his arm around his little sister, Ginny.

Harry couldn't think of anyone who deserved to win a large pile of gold
more than the Weasleys, who were very nice and extremely poor. He picked
up Ron's letter and unfolded it.

Dear Harry,

Happy birthday!

Look, I' really sorry about that telephone call. I hope the Muggles
didn't give you a hard time. I asked Dad, and he reckons I shouldn't
have shouted.

It's amazing here in Egypt. Bill's taken us around all the tombs and you
wouldn't believe the curses those old Egyptian wizards put on them. Mum
wouldn't let Ginny come in the last one. There were all these mutant
skeletons in there, of Muggles who'd broken in and grown extra heads and
stuff.

I couldn't believe it when Dad won the Daily Prophet Draw. Seven hundred
galleons! Most of it's gone on this trip, but they're going to buy me a
new wand for next year.

Harry remembered only too well the occasion when Ron's old wand had
snapped. It had happened when the car the two of them had been flying to
Hogwarts had crashed into a tree on the school grounds.

We'll be back about a week before term starts and we'll be going up to
London to get my wand and our new books. Any chance of meeting you
there?

Don't let the Muggles get you down!

Try and come to London,

Ron

P.S. Percy's Head Boy. He got the letter last week.

Harry glanced back at the photograph. Percy, who was in his seventh and
final year at Hogwarts, was looking particularly smug. He had pinned his
Head Boy badge to the fez perched jauntily on top of his neat hair, his
horn-rimmed glasses flashing in the Egyptian sun.

Harry now turned to his present and unwrapped it. Inside was what looked
like a miniature glass spinning top. There was another note from Ron
beneath it.

Harry -- this is a Pocket Sneakoscope. If there's someone untrustworthy
around, it's supposed to light up and spin. Bill says it's rubbish sold
for wizard tourists and isn't reliable, because it kept lighting up at
dinner last night. But he didn't realize Fred and George had put beetles
in his soup.

Bye --

Ron

Harry put the Pocket Sneakoscope on his bedside table, where it stood
quite still, balanced on its point, reflecting the luminous hands of his
clock. He looked at it happily for a few seconds, then picked up the
parcel Hedwig had brought.

Inside this, too, there was a wrapped present, a card, and a letter,
this time from Hermione.

Dear Harry,

Ron wrote to me and told me about his phone call to your Uncle Vernon. I
do hope you're all right.

I'm on holiday in France at the moment and I didn't know how I was going
to send this to you -- what if they'd opened it at customs? -- but then
Hedwig turned up! I think she wanted to make sure you got something for
your birthday for a change. I bought your present by owl-order; there
was an advertisement in the Daily Prophet (I've been getting it
delivered; it's so good to keep up with what's going on in the wizarding
world), Did you see that picture of Ron and his family a week ago? I bet
he's learning loads. I'm really jealous -- the ancient Egyptian wizards
were fascinating.

There's some interesting local history of witchcraft here, too. I've
rewritten my whole History of Magic essay to include some of the things
I've found out, I hope it's not too long -- it's two rolls of parchment
more than Professor Binns asked for.

Ron says he's going to be in London in the last week of the holidays.
Can you make it? Will your aunt and uncle let you come? I really hope
you can. If not, I'll see you on the Hogwarts Express on September
first!

Love from Hermione
